I think 1st rule of a 1st rule of demo day tips in pitch and practices to be on time to get the You know, get the, get the juice.
Alright, alright, let me start recording.
Okay, everybody, we're gonna jump right in to use every single minute. We have Kevin Casper here.
He was at the farm.
Kevin has been on our team for 2 programs, I think, right? And then after that, as a Yeah, in Chicago.
Yeah.
And then after that as a pitch specialist for many programs after that, so he has come back to help and the reason that we have Kevin back so often is because he has won more pitch competitions than anyone I know.
So he knows so much about pitching. We met when he came into undergrad and was really interested in entrepreneurship.
He made his own startup inferno guard, which I think he might talk about when he talks about pitching.
Yeah, just about.
And worked on that for all of college. So. There's an end to that story here. I'll let Kevin tell it, but Kevin has won over what half a mill in pitch competitions and Yeah, and that's just free money.
And always comes back to teach our founders the tips and tricks on how he does it.
Okay.
So this is perfect because last Kevin, we introduced demo day and pitching and so they've all started iterating on their pitches.
Perfect.
Thanks.
So today is perfect. So all of your tips, stuff they can implement.
Perfect. Okay, Neil.
How, how much is venture cat worth? How much was that? 100. Yeah, 160 K.
I think it's $160,000 when I put they might have, a little. Yeah.
Cause I judge that one, right? Yeah, I remember that. So I was a part of the like that 500 K for 160 K of it.
That was when I Okay, I didn't I knew you but I didn't really know you that well.
Yeah.
And so it was mostly like older teams with like. You know, sophisticated presentations and plans or whatever.
And then Kevin shows up, you were what a sophomore, I think. Yeah, he was like you know, barely an adult and he stepped in there.
And it was like not even a question like as the judges we looked around and we were like okay well clearly this guy's gonna win.
So it was like, yeah, like he has a way of like kind of commanding the room and knowing exactly what he's there to do and to say that I think everybody here could learn from and appreciate.
So half a million pitch prizes ain't no Trump chain.
Well, thanks now. I appreciate it. Alright, cool. So I'm, I'm just gonna share a presentation with you guys that I've been using for the past few times.
I've helped. Other cohorts out please like jump in with any questions at any time that's the best way to do it for sure just like I need or whatever But I'll go through it.
I, check in with the Leon and everyone about the format. So, similar to what I'm used to.
So I'm just gonna share my screen. And then we can go from there.
Can I run see this? Hopefully. Cool. Alright, cool.
Yeah.
Great. So, Lilian already talked about me, but I've worked to tech stars for a while.
I run a company called Inferno Guard that I've been working on all throughout high school.
It's about wildfire detection and notification, so pretty timely out in the Bay Area.
I'm actually moving out to the bay after I graduate. So excited to be out there and stay connected with the entrepreneurship ecosystem.
But I'm still connected with the entrepreneurship ecosystem. But I'm still at Northwestern.
I'm a senior. I have like a month left of school. But I have been to at least 2 or 3 demo days, maybe more.
So definitely I'm comfortable with the format and, helping you guys out as much as possible.
At the end of the like presentation, I'll leave my email, my phone number, by LinkedIn, whatever.
Just like, please feel free to reach out, text your email, whatever is easiest. I'm more than happy to help out, however I can.
But, alright, so for my understanding, the format is 60 second elevator pitch, 60 second, demo.
And then, oh, 4 min QA, not 6 min. Liliana gave that to me earlier, but
I think the most important thing to talk about early on is that like all the whole story arc must be fluid across all sections of the pitch.
I think that one misconception that a lot of people have when they're presenting for demo day is that the 60 second pitch and the demo and the QA are very separate from one another, but really you want to be able to tell a story across all 3 components of the pitch to make it seem like all of those are flowing really well between one another.
So you can do that in a lot of different ways, right? You can kind of have like a lot of different ways, right?
You can kind of have like a story arc, you can. Book end the beginning to the end create a very memorable moment but there has to be a way for you to be able to streamline what you're trying to say and even though they might fall under different buckets of the demo, the QA, whatever, you want to be able to kind of.
Visualize what that storyline might look like and It's really going to be different for every founder and for every company.
Especially with tech stars with so many different industries. So I think one thing that's important to keep in mind is like that you will have a very different storyline from someone else and that's totally okay.
But you guys know your company best and we'll be able to make those decisions on your own.
But one thing I like to recommend is thinking about it very visually. So, I've worked with like a graphic designer in the past who literally will nap out the storyline, the positive moments, the negative moments, the moments that there are drama or, like concern or negativity.
And you wanna just be able to visualize what that actually could look like, for your pitch and for your product.
And I think that now is a great time to be able to actually start thinking about things like that because you are in the earlier stages and of your demo days coming up.
Right at the end of May, so, you still definitely have time to do this. But when you're going through all of it, I definitely would think about how the storyline actually will look.
And one piece of advice that I always like to give that my dad actually gave to me when I was younger is like you have to teach.
Everything that you're trying to explain like your 10 years old basically, because People really consume information at a very basic level, especially when they're listening to pitch after pitch after pitch.
And I think it's really important that you're able to synthesize all of your earnings into a very easy.
Tangible digestible. Way of communicating. I almost like to think of it like a funnel.
There's probably a million things that you wanna say or that you could say because you've been working on your business.
So diligently throughout tech stars, but there's going to be like one specific narrative that will come out of it at the end.
That I think is really important to keep in mind. Assume that your audience. Knows absolutely nothing about what you're building.
I think that's really important. A lot of times when you're building a product, There are things that are you you have that are almost assumed where you're like, oh, I know I would assume that, you know, they know how the app works or how the user interface looks or how to download it or things like that.
But I think it's good to just assume that you literally know nothing. And then the goal is to walk out excited.
I think if you can pay attention for 8 min straight and have someone Yeah, I'm excited to.
You know, get on your website, talk to you afterwards, have a conversation with you. That's all that you can really ask for.
So I think the responsibility is definitely on you as a founder and not as the listener to be able to make that information digestible.
So it really is. Important that when you're developing your pitch, you kind of do the hard work for the listener.
You explain things that need to be explained. A little bit more clearly. You dumb down the information so that everyone can understand it.
You create you know recurring themes in the pitch so that people can understand all 8 min of it.
So definitely keep that in mind as you are going out and presenting. And I think this relates to something that's really important.
About the amount of like education or teaching that you might have to do and this will vary from every company that is here today, but.
There is a certain amount of information that any audience members just will not know about. Your product, your company, your vision.
And you have to think very critically about how much teaching or education you actually have to do. And I think oftentimes Founders will think that they have to over explain or over communicate when I think in reality, you can just be very specific about what you communicate and very, intentional about what you communicate.
And I think it's important to also think about like where this information should go. So oftentimes I like to do all a lot of my teaching upfront.
So I'll usually lead with some sort of story or some sort of Okay. Should we, just check in the chat?
Should we avoid jargon where possible? I definitely think so. Because the pitch is so short, I think that it's really important to just create a vision that anyone can understand and oftentimes like there is a certain amount of jargon that just creates some complexity there.
And that kind of relates to this like this teaching piece too, right? Is that, there might be something that you have to teach the audience.
Maybe it's about maybe you have to teach them about the problem and that's not as clear or maybe you have to teach them about what the users are saying and like your jobs to be done conversations, what you've learned there.
So I think there's definitely different ways or amount of teaching that you're going to have to do, but I think that it is important that you do it somewhat in the beginning because That's when you have the audience's most.
Attentive like Okay, focus on you, but that strikes a little bit of a challenge as well, right?
Because if you're trying to teach the audience a lot of information very early on, you might lose them with any of the complexity.
Which kind of goes back to the point of you have to be able to communicate. This in a very seamless.
And digestible way. So just think about that. You don't have to communicate any of these like main learnings or teachings early on, but.
Just be thoughtful about it. Yeah, what's up?
Hey, Kevin, thanks for this. Just curious, is there, talk about teaching, is there Is there, I don't know, best in class way or do you have a thoughtful approach to balancing the emotional side of versus just dropping numbers?
Cause I've seen obviously like that can be really powerful introduction. Just curious, in your opinion, how you approach that.
Yeah. So I might give a cop out answer, but I think ideally it's both. Ideally it's an emotional story that you can weave in.
Statistics throughout that that doesn't feel forced but i always think that telling a story that might be more emotional is always more engaging for a general audience member, maybe less so an investor per se, but for people that are trying, people that are trying to get broad attention from I think being able to tell a very coherent story that might be more on the emotional appeal can help.
But again, you do want to be able to make sure that. You not only give one specific example, right, but then are able to zoom out and think about the broader landscape, especially when you're talking about the problem.
So ideally I would try and have a little bit of a blend if you can. And then yeah, like you don't have to do all your teaching upfront.
You can always, Do some in the QA, right? They might say, oh, what's your business model?
And then you explain your pricing there and why you decided to do that. The QA is actually a great time to do a lot of that because they're specifically asking you questions that they want to learn more about.
Another thing that I think, is really important as well is like staying consistent with your tone as a founder and like who you personally are.
I think a lot of times what makes your company so special and so recognizable are the founders and the founding team and the CEO.
And I just don't want any of the like, founders to lose that when they're pitching.
I think oftentimes people will kind of suppress their personality or suppress their. Just like kind of ways of communicating because it is a pitch.
And there's obviously a balance that you need to strike between being professional and kind of like communicating very authentically.
But a pitch really should feel like a conversation. It should feel like something your. You could do like on the couch hanging out and having a conversation as much as on a stage presenting to hundreds of people.
So Like definitely own the type of founder that you are, like an example of this. And that Neil was talking about was like when I was pitching at one of these competitions, I would always just wear a suit and tie.
I don't know why, but I just really would. And like other people show up and they're like founder t-shirts or whatever and like, I think that's pretty common out in the bay to like have a load with your company and present in that.
I just like kind of thought because I was young I wanted to present myself in a very professional way and that's just what I did and I think that it has worked out for me in the past.
So I'm not saying dresses the most important thing. I'm just saying that, being able to communicate yourself more authentically is really important.
So don't lose sight of that when you're trying to develop your pitch.
And then I think one of the biggest challenges that people have when they're pitching really is taking advice from other people and getting that sort of feedback.
A lot of times implicitly, we're really willing to listen to feedback and consume feedback. So If I gave you feedback or anyone else gave you feedback, you would think about.
You know, how that applies and if you would want to implement or not. I think ultimately you have to be confident in the pitch that you're developing for yourself.
But I do think getting advice is really important. And I think there's kind of a method to this madness of the balance of writing a pitch yourself versus getting pitch feedback and kind of knowing when you're at a point that you're happy with the pitch.
And my biggest advice is get a high quantity of advice all at once. So I'm sure by now there are trusted mentors that you have or people like Lilian or Neil.
In your kind of community that can give you pitch feedback. But I would try and do it.
At a very high volume in a short amount of time because then you can see the patterns much more clearly.
If you get pitch advice from someone on Tuesday and then a week from Tuesday. You're gonna kind of not be able to identify the patterns as quickly.
So, I am kind of surprised that oftentimes people do have similar feedback if you talk to enough people and that really helps you understand what actually needs to be changed and what is more of like a like investor preference or a mentor preference because a lot of times they will like not force their own preferences on you but give you advice that is very specific to the way they like to do things which at times
could be really helpful but again this is your pitch and your decision so you should feel confident you know. Giving the pitch how you want.
So definitely get a high quantity of advice at once and then like I would iterate multiple times. And I think one misconception here is that It's the advisor or the mentor's job to iterate the pitch.
It really is like the onus is on you for sure to be the one taking those iterations and being proactive if you want secondary advice from someone and you just iterated the product like go ahead make that pitch again and then give it to the, the mentor again.
But there comes a point where feedback is only so helpful. So at some point, you do have to finalize your pitch and kind of stay grounded in what you've built.
A lot of the pitches that have gone poorly for me have been when I've tried changing my pitch the night before or 2 nights before or even 3 or 4 nights before and I think just having like that mental reassurance that your pitch is it finalized it's exactly where you want it to be.
4 days to a week out really is essential. Because I think you're just going to be way more anxious, nervous.
Like lack the confidence if you are changing things last minute. And I've seen this before with tech stars founders as well.
So I think it's really, really important to have your pitch finalized multiple days before. And that you feel confident about it.
So that's kind of more of just like my broad advice for each of these like for the pitch as a whole, but I'm gonna go into.
The each component some areas I feel like I have more knowledge on than others trans apparently I think the demo is where I have the least amount of knowledge.
But I'm just gonna kind of share my experience and what I think will be helpful. But does anyone have questions about what I said before just broadly.
Maybe there are questions that you're wrestling with in your pitch. Happy to answer them now or we can just keep moving whatever works best
Alright, well I'll keep going.
Hey, Gavin, sorry, Lasco. Just curious, what's your mental prep look like?
You mentioned a week out, like, I know everyone can be different, but, like, what's your prep look like?
How do you do?
Yeah, I think something that's really important is actually presenting the information out loud in front of other people.
And recording yourself. I honestly think recording yourself is the most important thing. I've learned so much about how I pitch, how I walk on stage, what my tics are when I say, when I am lacking confidence, all from recording myself.
So I think it's really important that you record yourself. You don't need to be on a big stage to like mimic what that's going to be like.
But I think it's really important that you do record yourself and then also everyone has their own way like my co-founders like to record themselves and put it in their ears when they're like walking to and from places like to record themselves and put it in their ears when they're like walking to and from places.
I like to just practice it a certain amount of like time per day. I also think it's important to get comfortable with the visuals behind you, like, whether you'll have them or not, I think.
Correct me if I'm wrong. Typically, usually there's only one type of visual plus the demo.
That gets shown, but I think it's really important to be like comfortable with those as well.
So I would just do everything you can to replicate what will actually happen. At the time of the presentation and it's likely that you'll have some sort of dry run through the morning of as well.
And I think that if you are confident with your pitch and what you've created shouldn't be a big adjustment.
You know, the comfort of your apartment if you were talking to multiple people. And just presenting in front of anyone and everyone, you can get your hands on.
So yeah, I think just having conversations with people's most important thing. But, moving into the elevator pitch.
I think it's really hard to
Communicate everything that you want in a very short amount of time and 60 seconds transparently is a pretty short amount of time but it forces you to really synthesize the most important information that you want to tell and One way that I like to think about this is the 60 second elevator pitch gives you a chance to answer the very simple question of like, what do you do?
Like who are you? What are you building? What are you trying to solve? Like literally what does your company do?
Cause if they can walk away. 60 seconds into your pitch and say, all right, you know, this is the founder.
He runs this type of company and they're focused on this. You're pretty successful.
So kind of leading with that simple thought in mind. I've structured these into more of like a dues and don't.
This is again just my personal preference. But I think it is important to write a script out when you are editing a document live, it's so helpful to be able to visually see.
How you can connect words and create transitions that are more authentic and more like powerful. And I think it's really important to also like fight for every word that you put on that page because even things like transitioning between sentences or introducing topics or concluding topics.
When you only have 60 seconds, they really matter. But one thing that happens as a result of this sometimes is people try to over memorize so they don't sound authentic and they also stumble on any miss words that they have.
I see this a lot with tech stars founder sometimes is. When you have such an important event they've worked very hard to prepare for if you do mess up live on stage it can be hard to like get back into it.
So what I always like to do is make sure that you have the mental points in your head of like the 6 things you're trying to say in your 60 seconds, right?
So you might have your 60 second pitch all written out in like a paragraph, but I would also have 6 bullets like, alright, I want to tell that story, then I want to bring that stat in.
Then I want to introduce myself. You know, then I want to explain the problem and then I wanna, you know, lead into the demo.
Because if you have that built into your mind. Even if you do kind of fumble and you have challenges.
Saying the things that you memorize, you can still run through that mental picture in your logic and be able to like recover in a very clear way.
The other thing is no one knows what your what your you know word document said they only know what you're saying.
Live so it doesn't matter if you. Mess up truthfully I have completely BS things on stage live multiple times and People truly don't know if you're confident and able to actually just like.
Articulate the information that you want to say, even if it isn't in the exact language that you might have intended to.
I really think that's the right telling is important. I think that it's the best way to engage an audience in the most authentic way.
So I'm a big proponent of storytelling. Whether it's a customer story, whether it's a personal story, something that you can really bring the audience in because if you're able to explain very specifically how your product might support one specific user.
It's much easier for them if they have a very deep understanding of that one user to be able to broaden it out and say, okay, well, they're in this, you know, they're in this one.
Customer segment but we also have a broader vision to tackle these other. Markets as well. You can justify that a lot easier if you have a very clear picture in your mind of how your product will solve problems for one specific user group.
I think. One challenge though is you're not going to be able to say everything that you want.
In that you might have in a given deck, right? If you're pitching to an investor, it's gonna be, you know, 10 plus minutes with a deck.
This isn't that type of pitch. And I think that's really important to kind of note.
So It's more about giving your listeners a more holistic. You of your company. More from some sort of birds eye level, I think when you're answering those Q&A, you're able to kind of dig much deeper and answer some of the specific topics that are critical to your business, but I think of it a little bit more of a bird's eye view.
Then a deck might be. People have a lot of different viewpoints on like when to introduce yourself.
Some people think that it's bad to introduce yourself in the very beginning. Some people think that you should introduce yourself in the middle.
My only thing is do it whenever you want but don't shy away from it. I feel like because sometimes it is like a concern that a lot have.
You are the founder, you have a CEO, right? Like you want to be able to communicate.
And introduce yourself in a very confident way. So definitely don't shy away from that introduction. It can feel like you're a little bit ruining the flow.
Yeah, what's up Jennifer?
Okay, so in the very beginning. When they're like introducing us and having us come to the stage, they are gonna introduce us.
Huh?
And then I think we have the choice of doing video first, st then pitch then QA. Or pitch then Q and or pitch then video than QA.
Yep.
So just cure. Oh, you won't be introducing us.
Hmm. Okay.
Okay, so then. You recommend like any specific flow whether we do the video 1st or the pitch 1st and then introducing ourselves or not.
Yeah. I'll defer to Lily on it for a second if. Yeah, I think.
Yeah, most people do pitch first, st but if you have a specific reason why you think video 1st might be better, maybe like your company J.
Lo, then we let you do video first.st But most people do pitch first.st So that they know who you are and what's going on.
And then the video will enhance the pitch.
Okay, cool. That makes sense.
Yeah, I I would kind of agree. I think introducing yourself and getting to know like who is building the company who's founding the company before they show the demo actually builds a lot of trust with the user.
And with the audience, so I'm always a promotion of showing the, the pitch first.st
And then, yeah, I guess if you're not introducing yourself, they're not introducing you, definitely find a way to weed that in.
What's up?
Yeah, so it just a comment, following up to what art said. I heard the same thing that you guys will introduce ourselves and and I think some mentor recommending not to.
Put on quote waste time introducing ourselves because it's just 60 seconds. So which one is the final call Please.
Yeah, can someone unmute and remind me where you guys heard that because I don't think I've ever said that.
We've always done the demo.
I think it was Troy. Troy, I think if I if I remember Troy, said, do not, don't waste time introducing yourself in 60 seconds.
Yeah.
He said that.
Yeah, yeah, it was on that.
Jerry was not, that was not accurate.
No, no, no, when he's saying, what he sings actually legit. So he's saying don't waste time introducing yourself, which is good advice.
But I don't think it doesn't sound like he said that someone else will be introducing you.
Cause that's not necessary.
He always says don't spend time introducing yourself because no one cares. So like when you say like, hi, I'm this and this is my company, everyone will tune you out.
I remember he says that every time. Like just start with a story.
And by the way, when we say introductions, I think there might be some confusion where it's like, and the next company is Doug prime.
That's going to happen. So we know who to go up. Who's going up and when?
No.
No, you'll know your order and you'll be lined up and I'll be queuing you up and your walk up music will play.
But you all know your order. You'll know it way before and we'll rehearse it and you'll be sitting in your order and then we'll put you up there.
It flows just fine guys like I wouldn't I wouldn't overthink the logistics of this.
It's super smooth the music you pick is really it's a seamless experience.
If there's any lingering questions about that, we can answer them as well, but.
Again, like answering what they do with that pitch, I think it's the most helpful information. I think getting creative with this is great.
One thing that I found a lot of value in has been rainstorming just like very creative ways to present your information.
It's hard to be creative in a pitch sometimes because I think we've seen so many of them that we want to create our own like version of whatever we've seen in the past.
I would definitely spend some time brainstorming, just like ways that you want to be able to tell your story, that you might not have already thought about before trying something completely new on demo day may not be the best way to approach it but there might be different variations or ways to communicate that you haven't fully thought of in depth before that might be worth thinking about.
Yeah, exactly. I think the comment about, about experience is pretty relevant. I actually saw a post about this on a with a tech stars founder from my cohort, a few years ago, like they really care more about what you're building than who you are.
And the impact that it's gonna have on your customers and the like problem that you're solving.
So, definitely.
And then the last thing is. Focus, I think it's sometimes overlooked, but definitely important to focus on like the posture, the way that you're walking in the presence.
That you have on stage. It's best practice to not walk all over the stage when you're talking.
I think that you can move around a little bit, but. When you're speaking, especially important like sentences, like I would kind of plant your feet and just speak.
If you're like transitioning from 1 point the next you can move around a little bit but definitely try and kind of plant your feet here.
So that's more like logistical, but yeah, what's up?
Okay, so we have one slide that we have presented while we're doing Or is it only during our QA or during our pitch?
Yep.
It's only during your QA.
Got it. So when we walk up and we do our 60 second pitch, essentially the screens blank.
Yeah, and this is spotlight on you. So it's like that in all the examples if you want to see an example.
And also I'm going to upload my demo day format slide where I walk through the format because it says that like very explicitly, so I'll just post that on base camp right now in case anybody needs to see it.
Got it. Okay, cool.
Okay.
It may also make sense for some of you all to rewatch the demo day, workshop that Lilian gave where she kind of talked to all these things.
I know I was there and I also went to demo day. I just like For some reason, can't visualize it at the moment, but thank you.
So once your pitch is done, you'll start to. Yeah, let's wait. Let's answer all those.
Intro questions. Any questions about introductions or the format or? Things like that.
Yeah, lots to make sure this is clear because everything Kevin's gonna say is very important. So I wanna make sure that we are on the same page altogether.
I appreciate whoever told me that. There was that misconception. Thank you for bringing that up.
Okay, I think we're good to move on Kevin and Jeremy I completely agree if the story is part of your pitch you should do it I think Troy was saying more like a lot of people will like tell a bunch about themselves and then introduce themselves and only spend like 30 seconds on the business.
A lot of people do that when they 1st try to write a pitch like hi I'm Blink and I'm building Blink.
It's not going to be a very good pitch. So just cutting that already before you guys even.
Start writing it. That's what Troy was trying to do last week.
Great advice. Alright, so moving on, you'll walk up on stage, you'll have the music, you'll give your 60 second pitch live spotlights directly on you, then the demo is going to come up.
I think that the 1st piece of advice. With this demo is this is your chance to basically showcase the progress that you've made.
Taking your like idea and your pitch and making it very real for the customers. Or for the listeners.
So I think it's important to thank here, this is your just your chance to communicate. Hey, this is what we've built.
This is the traction that we have. Here's how people are interacting with the product. And when you get to the demo, I think that People by nature are going to handle this a little bit differently.
I always think that it is and can be helpful to start blending in like more of a user centric approach towards this product demo.
So thinking about ways that like the user would actually interact with the product, what are the like. How would it flow?
What are the values that they're going to be getting out of this product? What's the traction that you have?
So just think about ways that you can maybe incorporate things that you might have wanted to say in your QA or in your pitch that you can infuse into your demo.
Because The demo shouldn't be, you know, log in page, then all these other things, right?
We, I think that you've heard that information before you wanna be able to like still tell very cohesive narrative.
Still be able to like, extract really important and meaningful like insights during those 60 seconds. So again, like maybe treating this as a little bit of a continuation of your pitch, but don't, use this as time to like say things that you wanted to fit into your 60 second pitch that you couldn't.
This is a demo I want. Like definitely to make it clear that you should be spending your time showcasing your product, the thing that you have built.
And how it actually functions. But like painting that story line, I think is still important. Maybe you can bring in the user that you mentioned from your 60 second pitch into your demo or maybe you can now talk about what people are saying about your product and the like the value that you're adding for them.
So definitely think about that. And then I think it is important to make sure that your product demo is like visually peeling that you've spent a lot of time, energy.
Then if you want to invest in, you know, the quality of your video, you're more than welcome to do so.
I've seen a very big mix. I've seen, you know. As far as like, the like one example is there is a company that their wives recorded the video and did the voice over and I think that they did it themselves, but it looks really, really nice.
And that was great. They were very resourceful, like very entrepreneurial of finding a way for the demo to look sound and feel good without spending, you know, a lot of money or, going overboard on it.
So definitely put some time into it. Don't throw it together last minute, but as long as you're proactive, I think that it will turn out nicely.
Think about how you want to incorporate, you know, what your branding looks like, how you are presenting yourself in a creative way.
And I think that you'll be in a good spot.
I think there also is a way to kind of like not put enough effort into it because we watched Bloom filters with them and he had his wife do a voiceover into it because we watched Bloom filters with them and he had his wife do a voiceover and it sounded so robotic and it was not.
Yeah.
If you remember, so like there were our groups that do it low-cost and it looks really nice like the unbuilt video you saw with the furniture company that cost them basically nothing like they just did it themselves.
There were like a
But yeah, make sure that it's at least high enough quality that you would be proud of it and you're not just mailing it in because like we still tell Andrew that you would be proud of it and you're not just mailing it in because like we still tell Andrew that that was a really bad video and he knows it and like I'm sure if he just put in a little bit more effort even low cost
Yeah.
no money he would be happier with it. So just remember that your future self will thank you for that extra effort.
If you all want a pro perspective on it, Max Temkin. Has done amazing professional video work. He does it himself.
Self-taught and he's incredible at it. So talk to Max if you really feel like you're stuck on the video front.
Awesome.
Alright. Yeah, David?
Yeah, could you go back one slide and I guess. I guess could you paint more color around build the video?
Don't build the video around users. This is a product demo I guess something we were considering was kind of communicating how our product impacts the users.
Kind of wanna understand a little bit if maybe What you're kind of saying in this don't so just so we're not doing anything that you think could be detrimental kind of thing.
I think that's a great piece of advice. Like I think that the way that you're thinking about it is totally on track.
I wouldn't be overly concerned. I just don't want you to take all of your time away from actually showcasing what you've built.
As long as there's like, as long as there's a balance between talking about how the users are interacting with the product and actually showcasing the product.
Thank you.
I think that you're in a pretty good spot. Antonio?
Yeah, very similar question. We are pre product. We were thinking of using the 1st 10 seconds for putting some highlights from the GTPD interviews.
Yeah.
Just some recordings and I guess it's that's okay correct like As long as it doesn't take the whole video you're saying but 10 seconds of users feedback or users input should be okay, right?
I think so. I don't know if Neil or Lily, I don't have any comments on this, but the best way to show that people are liking your product is by having words and like things from your user saying that they get value out of it.
So I don't see any problem with it.
I agree.
Cool. Good. Awesome. Alright.
Moving on. Sorry, this is supposed to say 4 min, but. I think the last 4 min really gives you a chance to like lean into everything that you've learned.
Over your time at Techstars. I think this is a way to build a lot of trust with your audience to be able to showcase a vast amount of your learnings in a very short amount of time.
It's kind of nice that you will, Liliana, correct me if I'm wrong, have some sort of insight into the questions that will be asked ahead of time.
Yeah, it'll be completely scripted with your ER.
Right. So. That's great, right? So you'll be able to kind of manufacture the conversation that you want to have.
And I think being very like transparent and honest and communicative about your experience and what you've learned is the best way to have a really good.
So I think designing the QA for what you wanna say is really, really important. Spend a lot of time thinking about the questions that you might want to get asked and how you want to answer them.
So. I think there's definitely a unique balance of like how many questions you get asked. I would I would imagine it'd be between like 4 and 6, but I'm not sure.
Leon, do you have any thoughts on that?
It's as many as you can comfortably answer. So I always say it's better to break them up.
So don't have like 3 with super long answers like a minute each people are gonna have their eyes glazed over but having those same answers split up amongst 4 or 5 questions is probably the sweet spot.
It depends how long your answers are, how the pace that you go at is, so it'll be different for each of you, but I would agree with Kevin between like 4 and 6 is probably where you'll land.
And the last question for everyone will be, how can the audience here help you today? And that'll be your closing statement.
So it'll take like 10 seconds so you can make your whole set without that and we'll go over that with you in the final week and everyone will have a closing statement for about 10 seconds.
And that'll be, you know, whatever your goal is and you're asking the audience for that and then you thank them and leave.
Awesome. So one thing that I think is helpful here, is to be like very answer 1st with your, with your QA.
So what I mean by that is if I ask you who your target customers are starting with like my target customers are.
You know, all the insights that you found from your JTVD. And then if you want to add any more commentary after that being able to like kind of go back set a little context communicate but I think.
You don't wanna wait 45 seconds to get the answer to a question. You wanna be able to get the answer upfront.
So, just be thoughtful about that.
And then. I think it's important to like sequence the questions, right? And the way that you're thinking about your demo and your 60 second pitch you wanna be able to let the story flow in a like a narrative that works best for you and for, what you've built.
So feel free to sequence the questions in any way that you think is best. This is kind of like in my opinion a little bit of a hack, because And it does set you up very nicely if you are thoughtful about this.
Don't overthink it. Like I think you know your company pretty well. So, if there is an order, they think it's best just kind of lean in and jump into that.
Yeah, Neil.
So just a reminder to folks, the, the notion here is that it's connected to your goal.
Some of you have a goal of investor conversations and fundraising. Some of you have partnership or customer acquisition goals, whatever it is.
Be brutally like focused on orienting your conversation with your EIR. Around speaking to those people in the room.
And for the video that you'll have that you can share afterwards. You don't have to cater to everyone at once.
Definitely.
It's not important to do that. It's much more important for you to get your full value from the experience by directing the energy and the conversation in the way that would be optimal for your goal.
Great point. And I think that's where the ask becomes, you know, even more critical. As well, right?
Ending the conversation with being very poignant about what you want and what you're trying to get out of this.
And I think answering that question now is a great way to structure your entire pitch around that. To get the most out of it.
So. At the end, definitely have a formal well thought out question to ask, so that you can target the people in the room that you care about most.
I think it's important to only make one ask. I've seen some founders try and make multiple asks and I think that it adds some complexity.
So just be very targeted and what you're asking for. And then I think it's great to answer like hard questions and to be transparent and be honest, people know that entrepreneurship is hard that you're working through a lot of big challenges and it is really helpful.
I think that you build a lot of trust when you have transparency and what you're building and the way that you've been going about this process.
So definitely don't be afraid to answer challenging questions. Because You guys are all really smart.
You're able to kind of work through that as well. So.
It's more impressive and more memorable if you address challenging questions. It's, honestly like.
Yeah.
Kind of a let down, I think to some folks investors that I've spoken to when they feel like.
For anybody who knows baseball, cream puffs. Anybody know this analogy? Cream puffs.
So I didn't know this either, but Brad taught us because he's a baseball player. But cream puffs are basically like really, really easy pitches to hit.
So you don't want the softballs.
And to be honest, oh, Okay, so that's most of what I have. So I've gone through those.
I'm gonna give you some last like parting tips and then, we can use the rest of at the time however you think is most helpful.
But. I think the most important thing here is like you really have to love your pitch more than anyone.
If you don't love your pitch, you're not gonna feel confident on stage. You're gonna be nervous when you go up and present.
And I think All of that really just comes with time and patience and continue to revisiting of your of your pitch.
So make sure that you are proactive. Starting now all the way through demo day. I know that you're trying to also build a company at the same time that you're trying to prepare for demo day, which can create some unique challenges, but.
I mean being thoughtful about this everyday blocking out just a small amount of time, I think will go a really long ways and create a pitch and a product and a, you know, a storyline that you're really proud of.
Okay, and can you make that more practical and real what you just said because I kind of want you to say it louder for the people in the back what you just said about practicing every day.
Yeah.
Like one practicing every day to recording all of your pitches and 3 having a spreadsheet or a database of all of your pitches and recordings and formats.
Yeah. Yeah.
I'm saying all this because I've seen a few founders do it. Not most. But a few meticulously have recorded and tracked and organized.
All of their pitches that they've. Attempted and have shared versions of their pitches with different people for that kind of feedback because of how seriously they were taking it.
Yeah, it's a really great way of looking at it. So trying to be as concrete as possible, I think Blocking out it.
30 min to an hour, at least a day, starting now, moving forward. If you're thinking about something continuously from now until demo day, you're just going to do a much better job.
And I think it's starts with getting your 1st version of what you want your pitch script to look like.
What you want your demo layout to be, what questions you want to be asked and how you want to create those answers and being very specific about what your ask is and then backtracking that to create a very coherent pitch overall.
I think you guys are working on that right now, getting as close as you can and finalizing that this week is really important.
And then start getting pitch feedback. As Neil mentioned, you can send different versions of different pitches to different people to get various types of feedback. Logging it is critical.
I think like notion or drive or any way of documenting and maintaining that is great because oftentimes Probably what will happen is you'll create version one and then you'll share it and then you'll create version 2 and then you might end up going back to version one at version 8 because you realize that you actually communicated it in the best way.
Is really important because there might be things that you've said in other versions that you want to bring back later.
And the worst thing is not remembering what you said. Do you have a question?
Yeah, so and you might have said that before on other calls, but, to get feedback besides our leave mentors, who can we send these information, LL, or what's the best way to get feedback from the staff and mentors?
Any ER that you have, me, Neil, the whole team, Chloe, put it in your base camp.
A lot of people already have put it in your individual base camp and tag us and ask for feedback or send it to your EIR or both.
Thank you.
And then yeah, a lot of people on the network like Becky from AWS is very interested in helping you guys a couple other people.
So if you want us to help you find some mentors to help, we can do that as well.
Yeah.
I think you should also share it with founders who've done it. Pitches that you like founders that you're connected to that you've met throughout this program experience, people who've given pitches in some of the videos you saw that you thought were phenomenal.
You can reach out to those CEOs, are all in the family. You have a lot of options to get feedback and input.
I also always like to plug the cohort that you're in right now like your other founders are the best resource possible like building alongside them trying to brainstorm together ways that you can create you know creative pitches and demos.
The most help I've gotten are people from vastly different industries. So I think sharing your pitch and getting feedback from your own peers is also just like a really, really great way.
To accelerate your growth, and getting feedback from your own peers is also just like a really, really great way, to accelerate your growth, Yeah, I would get a lot of high quality feedback in a short amount of time.
It looks like you only have about 3 weeks before demo day, which is a little bit of an accelerated timeline.
So, make sure that you're like revising and iterating constantly. If you break out like an hour a day to iterate, you'll feel much more confident because you have seen it time and time and time again.
And just like make sure you love it. I think that's really important. It gives you that confidence.
And then once you have everything where you want it to be, like do as much as you can to relax.
And just practice, because you do wanna have that finalized. You know, as far out in advance as possible.
So that you can go up and crush it and, at the end of May, but That's everything that I have.
That's my email. It's my phone number. You can also find me on LinkedIn pretty rarely available.
So, Please feel free to reach out. You know, someone asked. Who can help? I'm more than happy to like.
Find time one on one with you guys, if that would be helpful. So please feel free to reach out.
I'm more than happy to help, but,
I love that you have the Mill Village, photo for the final slide here. It's really good.
It's it's 1 of my favorite pictures of all time. Yeah.
Yeah, it's really good one.
For those wondering this was. Helping elderly people get meal delivery and the woman in the back on his Q&A slide was giving a testimonial on how changed her life in his video so he just wanted to hammer that home and put her back on the screen for his one slide.
Which was a very creative use of it. I thought it was really powerful.
And it doesn't sound like a very like. You know, sexy business, but I think Ravi was between one or 2 million in ARR at the time, right?
Yeah.
Good. Company. Kevin, thank you so much. This was awesome.
I recommend that everybody go back and watch this again with the Do's and Don's write down what you think that you need to work on for each section.
Each of those are extremely potent. I've helped people try and do or do not do each of those points that Kevin has put.
Yep.
So really, really important there. And Neil wanted to just add one more thing with product demo. Kevin, if you still have more time, just stick around so you can comment as well.
Yeah, for some bonus time, are you cool if I share my favorite product demo video? Is that cool?
Yes, please.
Alright, so this is the old, it's 1 that I share with, my all my Northwestern students over the past 10 years.
I don't think I've ever shared it with my tech stars founders because it's a 4 min.
Product video. But there's a reason given all the questions and energy that I'm picking up on with y'all that I want to show you this 4 min product video.
So some of you might know this. Has anyone ever seen the Dropbox MVP video. Anybody here?
No hands? Oh hell yeah. All right. All right, game.
Oh, Valeri has seen it. You've seen it? Alright, good. Alright, so I have something to say about it, but I want you to pay attention to it.
Like, whatever you're doing, if you got text messages, notifications on your phone, you doing multi-tasking, video off, whatever.
Give me 4 min and 19 seconds of your time plus another minute or 2 to talk about it. I promise you it'll be worth it.
Alright, here we go. Go here. Do this. I need to choose to share sound.
Let me see. Am I smart enough? Okay, kind of pull this off.
Let me share. Share computer sound.
Alright, good to go.
We'll be taking a quick tour of Dropbox, which is a better way of keeping your important stuff synchronized across your PCs.
What makes Dropbox different is that it just works meaning that there's no complicated setup or configuration.
And if you're familiar with development tools, Dropbox is kind of like taking subversion and our sync and making them easy to use.
So here we'll walk through a concrete example. And so I just got a new laptop and I've got some important files on my desktop that I like to keep synchronized across both machines.
And to set up Dropbox, all you really have to do is install the application, which I did a moment ago, and then link it to an account.
So I typed in my information there. And it brings me to this web interface where I can see recent changes to the files in my Dropbox.
And I can actually get the files directly. So in addition to synchronizing files across PCs, Dropbox also securely backs them up and synchronize them to the web so you can click on any of these files and it does what you'd expect.
In case you're not at one of your computers. As far as the Windows
That's actually not it. Let me fix it. One second. That is the second video that they did.
This is the first.st My bad.
One second. Let's pull this out.
Share. So you all remember this though, like the all remember Dropbox came out or like back in the day when like you couldn't actually do that functionality.
Does anybody, anybody old enough to remember that? Where you had to carry these giant hard drives around when I was in college on campus.
But anyway, this is better. There we go. So let's go here. We'll jump ahead.
Different is that it just works and there isn't any complicated setup or interface to learn So let's get started.
I've already installed Dropbox on a Windows PC and put a bunch of files in.
And now I want to sync these files to my Mac. So to do that, I just installed Dropbox and now I'm linking my Mac to my account.
So in a second, my account will be linked and you can see that the files that were on my Windows PC will start coming down.
And what we're looking at is my Dropbox folder, which looks and acts like any other folder except for 2 things.
One, these little green icons that indicate files are up to date. And 2, anything in my dropbox is synced across all my computers into the web.
And you'll notice that when I make changes, everything sinks up pretty quickly. And as another example, I'm going to log in my Windows PC.
Where you'll see that not only are the changes for my Mac already here, But if I make another change to a file, so for example this picture of a platypus.
And then I hit save.
The change begins uploading immediately. And when I go back to my Mac, the change is reflected in a matter of seconds.
So the point is if you've ever worked with multiple computers or carried on a USB drive or emailed yourself files from work, You can see this is a much easier way of managing your stuff.
And we also protect you from the bad things that can happen to your files. If I delete a bunch of stuff.
We have this web interface. Where you can not only get to your files in case you're not at one of your computers, so here are the contents of my Dropbox here.
But we have this show deleted files link where you can select a file that you've deleted and then you have an option to bring it back.
And a couple of clicks. So I'll do that. And instantly the files back. And not only do you have the option of restoring the most recent version, but actually any vert, any prior version of a file.
Because every time you make a change Dropbox save the snapshot. And Dropbox is also very efficient about the way it handles changes to files.
And sends only the pieces that change. So in the case of the plot-upus picture, just sending the delta saved over 80% of the bandwidth.
So that covers a lot of how we make it easy to access and protect your own files, but the other half of what we do revolves around making it really easy to share and put files online.
So normally if I want to share something, I have to send an email attachment or something like that.
But Dropbox has a special public folder. Where every file you put in here has a URL associated with it.
So I can get a public link. And then I can paste that into an IM window or an email.
Or blog post and it does what you'd expect. So that's great for individual files, but we also make it possible to share entire folders.
So hopefully that gives you an idea of how much easier Dropbox makes it to share files. And with that, we'll wrap up.
We're still in private beta, but you can visit us and sign up to give it a shot at www.
Dot com. Thanks.
Alright, so the most interesting thing about this video to me was one. It went viral back in the day when it went out.
It got them in the white combinator and I think got them over 500 K in funding and like I think over a hundred 1,000 people signed up for their wait list to learn more from that link at the end.
What is most fascinating about that product demo though is that you all kind of look at that function.
And I go, yeah, yeah, cool. We get it. Turns out most of that functionality had not yet been implemented.
It was a fake. It was like, it was like a fake it to you make it situation where they were presenting the functionality they intended to.
Develop once they brought on the full engineering team that they needed to do so. But they wanted to demonstrate their intent of what they wanted the product to do.
So that is actually the most interesting part of the video that doesn't get talked about enough. Which is you can show what I call the happy path.
Of your product even before the full functionality is there. So I didn't win as much money as Kevin, but I did win over a hundred $1,000 winning hackathons back in the day.
Because I understood this lesson. Which is it's less about having everything done and more about communicating your vision for what benefits the product will afford the user.
So, so this video literally went viral back in the day and it's like the quintessential Silicon Valley tech product demo because they knew their audience did a bunch of quirky Easter eggs and funny references.
They knew who they were trying to appeal to with this, you know, message. So I share that with you.
All to hopefully inspire you to help you realize like you don't have to have your product done done.
To render a version of it that communicates what you intend to do with it down the road. And how it's gonna help.
And.
Yeah, and on those lines, Neil, you're saying basically as long as we are confident that we can accomplish those those features.
We the good engineering team that we are gonna be hiring after the fundraising, then it's totally fine to put it, right?
I mean, we know that was what features will work. It just we we don't have the resources to implement them.
Is that is that the point and
Yeah, yeah, I mean you wanna be honest you don't want to oversell right you don't want to overplay your hand and say something you don't know how to do Drew himself the founder technical.
So he understood what was possible with what he intended to do. So he wasn't over promising on the functionality front, but he was taking some liberties about how everything worked at that point.
Was that helpful to share? How about invoice people's time? Okay, good.
Yeah, very helpful.
Right.
But I guess the last thing I'll say though, Kevin, is just like. Look, we can tell when somebody is stressed out.
Talking about their business versus when somebody's super proud, confident, and excited to talk about their business.
So I think practice is going to enable you to feel very confident about what you're saying and doing and also authenticity.
To trigger like your genuine interesting commitment to building this great business of yours and how excited you are to make that happen and work with people who mean well and want to help you.
It doesn't have to be this like tense. Awkward, you know, stressful, you know, like, like I, I hate that.
Like that's not a fun way to live or to run a business or anything. So just if that's what you're feeling, let us help you get over that hump so that you're actually jamming and enjoying the process in the journey.
Great point. That's all I got. So if you guys have any questions, happy to. You know, stay in touch, but.
Thank you